---
layout: post
title: 'Apache OpenOffice at FOSDEM 2016: Submit your talk now'
date: '2015-12-06T00:05:38+00:00'
permalink: apache_openoffice_at_fosdem_2016
---
FOSDEM 16 will be held at the ULB Campus Solbosch, Brussels (Belgium) on Saturday, January 30, and Sunday, January 31, 2016.<br /><br />Open document editors are coming again to FOSDEM with a shared devroom which gives every project in this area a chance to present ODF related developments and innovations. The devroom is jointly organized by Apache OpenOffice and LibreOffice.<br /><br />We invite submission of talks for the Open Document Editors devroom, to be held on Saturday, January 30, from 10:30AM to 6:30PM.<br /><br />Length of talks should be limited to 20 minutes, as we would like to have questions after each presentation, and to fit as many presenters as possible in the schedule. Exceptions must be explicitly requested and justified.<br /><br />Technical talks (code, extensions, localization, QA, tools and adoption related cases) about open document editors or the ODF document format are welcome.<br /><br />Submissions must be done by the speakers using the Pentabarf system:<br /><a href="https://penta.fosdem.org/submission/FOSDEM16/">https://penta.fosdem.org/submission/FOSDEM16/</a><br /><br />While filing your proposal, please provide the title of your talk, a short abstract (one or two paragraphs), some information about yourself (name, bio and photo, but please do remember that your profile might be already stored at Pentabarf) and specify what topic (Apache OpenOffice, LibreOffice, other ODF editors, ODF in general...) your talk is about.<br /><br />You do not need to create a new account if you already have one. If the password has been lost, you can easily recover it.<br /><br />Presenting at FOSDEM implies giving permission to be recorded.&nbsp; The recordings will be published under the CC-BY license.<br /><br />The deadline is Monday, December 7, 2015. Accepted speakers will be notified by December 15, 2015.<br /><br />You can send any questions to the devroom mailing list:<br />open-document-devroom@lists.fosdem.org<br /><br />
