title: The Apache Software Foundation Celebrates 20 Years of OpenOffice®
layout: post
date: '2020-10-15T22:15:59+00:00'
permalink: the-apache-software-foundation-celebrates

<p><b><i>Leading Open Source office 
application and personal productivity suite under development as a 
community-led Apache® Project for the past 8 years</i></b></p>
<p>
<b>Wakefield,</b>
<b>&nbsp;MA —14 October 2020—</b>
 The Apache Software Foundation (ASF), the all-volunteer developers, 
stewards, and incubators of more than 350 Open Source projects and 
initiatives, announced today the twenty-year anniversary of OpenOffice<sup>®</sup>, the last eight of which as an Apache<sup>®</sup> Top-Level Project.</p><p>"It’s
 inspiring to see so many dedicated people from around the world 
volunteer their time to mentor, contribute code, test issues, moderate 
mailing lists, help on forums, translations, marketing and more to keep 
making this great product better and available for millions of users," 
said Carl Marcum, Vice President of Apache OpenOffice. "OpenOffice is 
more than just software. It’s a great community that I’m glad to be a 
part of."</p><p>With more than 300 million downloads, Apache OpenOffice 
is used by countless individuals, organizations, and institutions around
 the world who are seeking a reliable, robust, and freely-available Open
 Source office document productivity suite. Apache OpenOffice features 
the following applications for Windows, macOS and Linux:</p><ul><li>"Writer" word processor;</li><li>"Calc" spreadsheet tool;</li><li>"Impress" presentation editor;</li><li>"Draw" vector graphics editor;&nbsp;</li><li>"Math" mathematical formula editor; and&nbsp;</li><li>"Base" database management program.&nbsp;</li></ul><p>Apache
 OpenOffice supports more than 120 languages, 41 of which are officially
 maintained and released by the Project. Apache OpenOffice is the 
productivity suite of choice for governments seeking to meet mandates 
for using ISO/IEC standard Open Document Format (ODF) files.</p><p>Originally
 created as "StarOffice" in 1985 by StarDivision, who was acquired by 
Sun Microsystems in 1999. The project was open-sourced under the name 
"OpenOffice.org", and continued development after Oracle Corporation 
acquired Sun Microsystems in 2010. OpenOffice entered the Apache 
Incubator in 2011 and graduated as an Apache Top-level Project in 
October 2012.</p><p>"At Apache OpenOffice we are very excited about 20 
years of OpenOffice," said Marcus Lange, ASF Member and Apache 
OpenOffice Committer since the project first arrived at the ASF. 
"Countless users, developers and friends have made it possible that we 
can today celebrate this incredible anniversary. Their commitment makes 
me believe that we will see many more years of this great Open Source 
productivity suite."</p><p>"The need and, in fact, the demand, for a 
permissively licensed Open Source office suite, available to the masses 
and not just the privileged few fortunate enough to have the latest 
hardware and software, has never been greater within the last two 
decades," said Jim Jagielski, ASF co-Founder and Apache OpenOffice 
incubating mentor. "Apache OpenOffice exists to provide essential 
functionality, with as few licensing restrictions as possible, to the 
world at large. It is truly a noble mission, and I am honored to be a 
small part of it."</p><p>"As a long-term user, I joined the project in 
2016 to give something back," said Matthias Seidel, Committer and member
 of the Apache OpenOffice Project Management Committee. "After a steep 
learning curve, I am proud to be part of the community that provides 
this great software for the public good and benefits millions 
worldwide."</p><p>Apache OpenOffice is available as a free download to 
all users at 100% no cost, charge, or fees of any kind. OpenOffice 
source code is readily available for anyone who wishes to enhance the 
applications. The Project welcomes contributions back to the project, 
its code, and its community. Those interested in participating with 
Apache OpenOffice can find out more at <a href="https://openoffice.apache.org/get-involved.html" target="_blank">https://openoffice.apache.org/get-involved.html</a> .</p><p><b>Availability and Oversight<br></b>As
 with all Apache projects, OpenOffice software is released under the 
Apache License v2.0 and is overseen by a self-selected team of active 
contributors to the project. A Project Management Committee (PMC) guides
 the Project's day-to-day operations, including community development 
and product releases. For project data, documentation, and more 
information on Apache OpenOffice, visit <a href="https://openoffice.apache.org/" target="_blank" style="background-color:rgb(255, 255, 255);">https://openoffice.apache.org/</a>&nbsp;and <a href="https://twitter.com/ApacheOO" target="_blank" style="background-color:rgb(255, 255, 255);">https://twitter.com/ApacheOO</a> .</p><p>12
 releases have been made under the auspices of the ASF. The project 
strongly recommends that users download OpenOffice only from the 
official site <a href="https://www.openoffice.org/download/" target="_blank">https://www.openoffice.org/download/</a>&nbsp;to ensure that they receive the original software in the correct and most recent version.</p><p><b>About The Apache Software Foundation (ASF)<br></b>Established
 in 1999, The Apache Software Foundation (ASF) is the world’s largest 
Open Source foundation, stewarding 227M+ lines of code and providing 
more than $20B+ worth of software to the public at 100% no cost. The 
ASF’s all-volunteer community grew from 21 original founders overseeing 
the Apache HTTP Server to 813 individual Members and 206 Project 
Management Committees who successfully lead 350+ Apache projects and 
initiatives in collaboration with 7,900+ Committers through the ASF’s 
meritocratic process known as "The Apache Way". Apache software is 
integral to nearly every end user computing device, from laptops to 
tablets to mobile devices across enterprises and mission-critical 
applications. Apache projects power most of the Internet, manage 
exabytes of data, execute teraflops of operations, and store billions of
 objects in virtually every industry. The commercially-friendly and 
permissive Apache License v2 is an Open Source industry standard, 
helping launch billion dollar corporations and benefiting countless 
users worldwide. The ASF is a US 501(c)(3) not-for-profit charitable 
organization funded by individual donations and corporate sponsors 
including Aetna, Alibaba Cloud Computing, Amazon Web Services, 
Anonymous, Baidu, Bloomberg, Budget Direct, Capital One, Cerner, 
Cloudera, Comcast, Facebook, Google, Handshake, Huawei, IBM, Inspur, 
Pineapple Fund, Red Hat, Target, Tencent, Union Investment, Verizon 
Media, and Workday. For more information, visit <a href="http://apache.org/" target="_blank" style="background-color:rgb(255, 255, 255);">http://apache.org/</a>&nbsp;and <a href="https://twitter.com/TheASF" target="_blank" style="background-color:rgb(255, 255, 255);">https://twitter.com/TheASF</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;</p><p>©
 The Apache Software Foundation. "Apache", "OpenOffice", 
"OpenOffice.org", "Apache OpenOffice", and "ApacheCon" are registered 
trademarks or trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation in the United
 States and/or other countries. All other brands and trademarks are the 
property of their respective owners.</p>
